Why have you separated the CreateAnimal() method from the client code?
I did it for one purpose. I wanted the subclasses to create specialized objects. If you
look carefully, you see that only this “creational part” varies across the products. I discuss
this in detail in the “Q&A Session” section of Chapter 24.

What are the advantages of using a factory like this?
You are separating the code that varies from the code that does not
vary (in other words, the advantages of using the Simple Factory
pattern are still present), which helps you easily maintain the code.
The code is not tightly coupled, so you can add new classes such as
Lion, Bear, and so on, at any time in the system without modifying
the existing architecture. In other words, I followed the “closed for
modification but open for extension” principle.

What are the challenges of using a factory like this?
If you need to deal with many different types of objects, then the overall performance
of the system can be affected.

The Factory Method pattern supports two parallel hierarchies. Is this correct?
Good catch. Yes, from the class diagram, it is evident that this pattern supports
parallel class hierarchies.
In this example, AnimalFactory, DogFactory, and TigerFactory are placed in one
hierarchy, and IAnimal, Dog, and Tiger are placed in another hierarchy. So, you can see
that the creators and their creations/products are the two hierarchies that are running in
parallel.

You should always mark the factory method with an abstract keyword so that
subclasses can complete them. Is this correct?
No. You may be interested in a default factory method when the creator has no
subclasses. In that case, you cannot mark the factory method with an abstract keyword.
However, to see the real power of the Factory Method pattern, you may need to
follow the design that is implemented here in most cases.

It appears that the Factory Method pattern is not that much different from
the Simple Factory pattern. Is this correct?
If you look at the subclasses in the examples in both chapters, you may find some
similarities. But you should not forget the key aim of the Factory Method pattern; it
is supplying you with the framework through which different subclasses can make
different products. In the Simple Factory pattern, you cannot vary the products in a
similar manner. You can think of the Simple Factory pattern as a one-time deal, but most
importantly, your creational part will not be closed for modification. Whenever you want
to add something new, you need to add an if-else block or a switch statement in the
factory class of your Simple Factory pattern.
In this context, always keep in mind the GoF definition, which says, “The Factory
Method pattern lets a class defer instantiation to subclasses.” Look at the modified
implementation closely. You can see that CreateAnimal() creates a dog or a tiger by
appropriate subclasses of AnimalFactory. So, CreateAnimal() is the factory method that is
abstract in this design. When MakeAnimal() uses CreateAnimal() inside its body, it has no
clue whether it is going to work on a dog or a tiger. The subclasses of AnimalFactory only
know to create the concrete implementations (a dog or a tiger) for this application.